---
id: '1'
name: Armor Innovation
rarity: Common
source: '[[DATABASE/source/Guns & Gears|Guns & Gears]]'
type: Inventor Innovation

---
# Armor Innovation

**Source** [[DATABASE/source/Guns & Gears|Guns & Gears]]
Your innovation is a cutting-edge suit of medium armor with a variety of attached gizmos and devices. Choose one of the sets of statistics on Table 2–2: Innovation Armor Statistics for your innovation armor (or choose another set of innovation armor statistics to which you have access).

## Table 2-2: Innovation Armor Statistics

| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 |
|:----------------|:---------|:--------|:--------------|:--------------|:---------|:-----|:----------|:-------------|
| Medium Armor | AC Bonus | Dex Cap | Check Penalty | Speed Penalty | Strength | Bulk | Group | Armor Traits |
| Power suit | +4 | +1 | -2 | -5 feet | 16 | 2 | composite | — |
| Subterfuge suit | +1 | +4 | -1 | — | 10 | 1 | composite | — |
Your innovation armor can have fundamental and property runes added to it in the same way as ordinary armor. Because of the unique features of your innovation, everyone except you is untrained in it, even if they would normally be trained (or better) in medium armor.
 Choose one initial armor modification to apply to your innovation, either from the following or from other initial armor modifications to which you have access.

* **Harmonic Oscillator**: You designed your armor to inaudibly thrum at just the right frequency to create interference against force and sound waves. You gain resistance equal to 3 + half your level to force and sonic damage. When under the effects of Overdrive, the resistance increases by 2.
* **Metallic Reactance**: The metals in your armor are carefully alloyed to ground electricity and protect from acidic chemical reactions. You gain resistance equal to 3 + half your level to acid and electricity damage. When under the effects of Overdrive, the resistance increases by 2.
* **Muscular Exoskeleton (Power Suit Only)**: Your armor supports your muscles with a carefully crafted exoskeleton. When you send your armor into overdrive, the exoskeleton supplements your feats of athletics as well. When under the effects of Overdrive, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to [[DATABASE/skill/Athletics|Athletics]] checks; if you're a master in [[DATABASE/skill/Crafting|Crafting]], this increases to a +2 circumstance bonus.
* **Otherworldly Protection**: Just because you use science doesn't mean you can't build your armor with carefully chosen materials and gizmos designed to protect against otherworldly attacks. You gain resistance equal to 3 + half your level to negative damage, or to positive damage if you have [[DATABASE/monsterability/Negative Healing|negative healing]] (such as if you're a [[DATABASE/ancestry/Dhampir|dhampir]]). You gain the same amount of resistance to any types of alignment damage—good, evil, chaotic, lawful—that can damage you (note that creatures don't take a given type of alignment damage unless they are of the opposing alignment; for instance, you can take evil damage only if you are good in alignment).
* **Phlogistonic Regulator**: A layer of insulation within your armor protects you from rapid temperature fluctuations. You gain resistance equal to half your level to cold and fire damage. When under the effects of Overdrive, the resistance increases by 2.
* **Speed Boosters**: You have boosters in your armor that increase your Speed. You gain a +5-foot status bonus to your Speed, which increases to a +10-foot status bonus when under the effects of Overdrive.
* **Subtle Dampeners (Subterfuge Suit Only)**: You've designed your armor to help you blend in and dampen noise slightly. When you send your armor into overdrive, the dampeners increase their effect, improving your [[DATABASE/skill/Stealth|Stealth]]. When under the effects of Overdrive, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks. If you're a master in [[DATABASE/skill/Crafting|Crafting]], this increases to a +2 circumstance bonus.

## Breakthrough Modifications<span class="item-type">7th</span>

* **Antimagic Plating**: Whether you used some clever adaptation of the magic-negating skymetal known as noqual or created magical protections of your own design, you've strengthened your armor against magic. While wearing the armor, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all saving throws against spells and to AC against spells. Against spells that target the armor directly (like [[DATABASE/spell/Heat Metal|heat metal]]), you instead gain a +4 circumstance bonus to all saving throws and to AC.
* **Camouflage Pigmentation (Subterfuge Suit Only)**: You've modified your armor's exterior to let you blend into your surroundings with ease, as long as you stay still. While wearing your armor, you can [[DATABASE/action/Hide|Hide]] even without cover or concealment, as the pigmentation shifts to match your surroundings.
* **Dense Plating**: You have encased your armor in robust plating. While wearing your armor, you gain resistance to slashing damage equal to half your level.
* **Enhanced Resistance**: You've improved upon your initial modification's ability to resist damage. The resistance from your initial armor modification adds your full level, instead of half your level (for instance, phlogistonic regulator's resistance would increase to your level). If you have more than one initial modification that gives resistance, choose which one this applies to.
* **Heavy Construction (Power Suit Only)**: You've expanded your innovation into a heavy bulwark, and your groundbreaking design ensures you don't take any of the drawbacks for such heavy defenses. Your innovation becomes heavy armor, and your proficiency in your innovation armor (but no other heavy armor) advances to be equal to your proficiency in medium armor. If your Strength score is at least 16, you remove the Speed penalty entirely instead of reducing it to –5 feet. The armor's adjusted statistics are: _AC Bonus_ +5; _Dex Cap_ +1; _Check Penalty_ –2; _Speed Penalty_ –10 feet; _Strength_ 16; _Bulk_ 3; _Group_ composite; _Armor Traits_ bulwark.
* **Hyper Boosters**: You've improved your speed boosters' power through a breakthrough that significantly increases the energy flow without risking exploding. You gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed, which increases to a +20-foot status bonus when you're in Overdrive. If you're legendary in [[DATABASE/skill/Crafting|Crafting]], it instead increases to a +30-foot status bonus when you're in Overdrive. You must have the speed boosters modification to select this modification.
* **Layered Mesh**: You've woven an incredibly powerful network of interlocking mesh around your armor, which catches piercing attacks and diffuses them. While wearing your armor, you gain resistance to piercing damage equal to half your level.
* **Tensile Absorption**: You've enhanced the tensile capabilities of your armor, enabling it to bend with bludgeoning attacks. While wearing your armor, you gain resistance to bludgeoning damage equal to half your level.

## Revolutionary Modifications<span class="item-type">15th</span>

* **Automated Impediments**: Your armor uses electromagnetic fields, subharmonic distortions, or other techniques to make it difficult for those close to you to move unless you allow it. While wearing your armor, all spaces adjacent to you are difficult terrain for your enemies.
* **Energy Barrier**: Your armor's defenses ablate any kind of energy coming your way. While wearing your armor, you gain resistance to all energy damage (acid, cold, electricity, fire, force, negative, positive, and sonic damage) equal to 2 + half your level. You must have the harmonic oscillator, metallic reactance, or phlogistonic regulator modification to select this modification.
* **Incredible Resistance**: You've improved upon your breakthrough modification's ability to resist damage. Choose one of the following breakthrough modifications your innovation has: dense plating, layered mesh, or tensile absorption. Increase the resistance you gain from that modification to be equal to your level, instead of half your level.
* **Multisensory Mask (Subterfuge Suit Only)**: You've built a multisensory mask over your armor that protects you by distorting your figure from all senses, leaving behind only a hazy image, muffled sounds, and so forth. While wearing the armor, you gain [[DATABASE/condition/Concealed|concealment]] against all creatures, even if they are using a nonvisual precise sense, such as a bat's echolocation. As normal for effects that leave your location obvious, you can't use this concealment to [[DATABASE/action/Hide|Hide]] or [[DATABASE/action/Sneak|Sneak]]. If you use a hostile action, the concealment ends until you restore the mask as a single action, which has the manipulate trait.
* **Perfect Fortification (Power Suit Only)**: You've outfitted your armor with such heavy fortifications that deadly attacks often lose their edge. Each time you're critically hit while wearing the armor, attempt a DC 13 flat check. On a success, it becomes a normal hit. This isn't cumulative with [[DATABASE/equipment/Fortification|fortification]] runes or other abilities that reduce critical hits with a flat check. Additionally, you gain resistance 2 + half your level against precision damage.
* **Physical Protections**: Your armor has so many adjustments and precautions that it can guard against all physical damage. While wearing your armor, you gain resistance to all physical damage (bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, as well as persistent bleed damage) equal to half your level. You must have the dense plating, layered mesh, or tensile absorption breakthrough modification to select this modification.
* **Rune Capacity**: Whether you've done some dabbling in [[DATABASE/equipment/Orichalcum|orichalcum]] alloys or found another engineering solution, you've built your innovation in such a way that it can hold an additional property rune. Your innovation can have one more property rune than a normal item of its kind (to a maximum of four property runes with a +3 potency armor).