---
id: '2'
name: Construct Innovation
rarity: Common
rus_type_level: null
source: '[[DATABASE/source/Guns & Gears|Guns & Gears]]'
trait: null
type: Inventor Innovation

---
# Construct Innovation

**Source** [[DATABASE/source/Guns & Gears|Guns & Gears]]
Your innovation is a mechanical creature, such as a clockwork construct made of cogs and gears. It's a prototype construct companion, and you can adjust most of its base statistics by taking feats at higher levels, such as [[DATABASE/feat/Advanced Construct Companion|Advanced Companion]]. If you use the [[DATABASE/action/Overdrive|Overdrive]] action, your construct gains the same Overdrive benefits you do, and it also takes the same amount of fire damage on a critical failure.
 You know how to spend additional time directing, controlling, or programming your construct innovation for a more complex plan of action. You can spend 2 actions to Command instead of 1 when commanding your construct companion; your construct companion can then use an additional action (normally 3 actions, rather than 2).
 Choose one initial construct modification to apply to your innovation, either from the following or from other initial construct modifications to which you have access. These modifications alter the construct's abilities or form.

* **Accelerated Mobility**: Actuated legs, efficient gears in the wheels or treads, or add-on boosters make your construct faster. Your innovation's Speed increases to 40 feet.
* **Amphibious Construction**: Increased buoyancy, rudders, and a means of propulsion like a fluked tail or powerful propeller make your construct able to travel in water. Your innovation gains a swim Speed of 25 feet.
* **Increased Size**: You built your construct innovation bigger than most. Your construct is Large. If you have this modification and your construct innovation becomes an advanced construct companion or otherwise gains the ability to become Large, you can immediately change increased size to a different initial construct modification.
* **Manual Dexterity**: Your construct innovation has articulated hands or similar appendages with significant manual dexterity. It can perform manipulate actions with up to two of its limbs. As normal for a companion, it still can't wield weapons or held items that don't have the companion trait, and it can't activate items.
* **Projectile Launcher**: Your construct has a mounted dart launcher, embedded cannon, or similar armament. Your innovation gains a ranged unarmed attack that deals 1d4 bludgeoning or piercing damage (you choose when you pick this modification). The attack has the propulsive trait and a range increment of 30 feet.
* **Sensory Array**: Additional sensory devices give your innovation low-light vision and darkvision, as well as imprecise [[DATABASE/monsterability/Tremorsense|tremorsense]] out to a range of 30 feet.
* **Wonder Gears**: You map specialized skills into your construct's crude intelligence. Your innovation becomes trained in [[DATABASE/skill/Intimidation|Intimidation]], [[DATABASE/skill/Stealth|Stealth]], and [[DATABASE/skill/Survival|Survival]].

## Breakthrough Modifications<span class="item-type">7th</span>

* **Advanced Weaponry**: You've powered up your construct's weaponry. Choose one of your construct's unarmed attacks to gain your choice of one initial [[DATABASE/inventorinnovation/Weapon Innovation|weapon modification]], chosen any initial weapon modifications to which you have access. The unarmed attack must meet any requirements for the chosen traits (such as being a melee attack for entangling form), and since it's an unarmed attack, it can never meet certain requirements, such as being a simple weapon for complex simplicity.
* **Antimagic Construction**: Whether you used some clever adaptation of the magic-negating skymetal known as noqual or created magical protections entirely of your own devising, you've made your innovation highly resilient to spells. Your construct innovation gains a +2 circumstance bonus to all saving throws and AC against spells.
* **Climbing Limbs**: With appendages that can claw or create suction, your construct becomes a capable climber. Your innovation gains a climb Speed equal to half its land Speed.
* **Durable Construction**: Your innovation is solidly built; it can take significant punishment before being destroyed. Increase its maximum HP by your level.
* **Marvelous Gears**: Your innovation gains expert proficiency in [[DATABASE/skill/Intimidation|Intimidation]], [[DATABASE/skill/Stealth|Stealth]], and [[DATABASE/skill/Survival|Survival]]. For any of these skills in which it was already an expert (because of being an advanced construct companion, for example), it gains master proficiency instead. If you have the revolutionary innovation class feature, these proficiencies improve to master, or legendary if your construct innovation was already an expert. You must have the wonder gears modification to select this modification.
* **Turret Configuration**: Your innovation can transform from a mobile construct to a stationary turret. Your construct companion can transform as a single action, which has the manipulate trait, turning into a turret in its space (or transforming back from a turret into its normal configuration). While it's a turret, your innovation is [[DATABASE/condition/Immobilized|immobilized]], but the damage die from its projectile launcher increases to 1d6 and the range increment increases to 60 feet. You must have the projectile launcher modification to select this modification.

## Revolutionary Modifications<span class="item-type">15th</span>

* **Flight Chassis**: You fit your construct with a means of flight, such as adding rotors or rebuilding it with wings and a lightweight construction. Your innovation gains a fly Speed of 25 feet.
* **Miracle Gears**: As you perfect your innovation's cortex, it becomes much more intelligent. Its Intelligence modifier increases by 2, and it learns a language of your choice from among the languages you know. Your construct gains the ability to use actions that require greater Intelligence, like [[DATABASE/action/Coerce|Coerce]] and [[DATABASE/action/Decipher Writing|Decipher Writing]]. Finally, your construct becomes legendary in two Intelligence- or Charisma-based skills of your choice. You must have the marvelous gears modification to select this modification.
* **Resistant Coating**: Your innovation is hard to damage by any means. It gains resistance 5 to all damage (except [[DATABASE/equipment/Adamantine Weapon|adamantine]]).
* **Runic Keystone**: You've incorporated a device similar to a [[DATABASE/equipment/Runestone|runestone]] into your innovation, allowing it to hold a property rune, even though it isn't a weapon or suit of armor. An armor property rune affects your innovation itself if it would affect the wearer of the armor. A weapon property rune grants whatever properties it would normally grant to a weapon to your innovation's unarmed attacks, following all the requirements as normal (for instance, a [[DATABASE/equipment/Vorpal|vorpal]] rune would only apply to slashing melee unarmed attacks); if the rune affects only ranged attacks, it has no effect unless your innovation has a built-in ranged attack (from the projectile launcher initial modification, for example). If the rune would affect the physical shape or appearance of the weapon or armor itself, like [[DATABASE/equipment/Glamered|glamered]], the rune has no effect when etched into your construct.
* **Wall Configuration**: Your innovation can transform from a mobile construct to a stationary battlefield emplacement. It can unfold as a 2-action activity that has the manipulate trait, changing from its usual form into a thin, straight wall of metal and gears up to 10 feet tall and 30 feet long. The wall must extend through your innovation's original space. While your construct is a wall, it can't take any actions except to use the same activity to transform back, and it can't defend itself easily, making it [[DATABASE/condition/Flat-Footed|flat-footed]] and giving it an additional –2 status penalty to its AC. The wall blocks line of sight and effect unless your innovation has half its maximum HP or fewer, at which point holes in the wall allow creatures to see through and attack with cover, and Tiny creatures to slip through.